what was the response from idiots
like George mom Bo the response was to
complain that this film wasn't woke
enough that it wasn't left-wing enough
that it wasn't ad capitalist enough and
ooo the laziest trope of all in
left-wing politics they had to go ahead
and accuse the film maker of racism
didn't get me on camera doing this today
not being judgmental or trying to play
God but we've got to deal with
population growth and sustainable
resources we've all got to come back
every expert I talked to wanted to bring
my attention to the same underlying
problem there are too many human beings
using too much too fast as a global
community we really have got to start
dealing with the issue of population
population growth continues to be the
not the elephant the herd of elephants
in the in the room many years ago there
was a hit website called couchsurfing
couchsurfing was very similar to Airbnb
except nobody paid a dime it relied on
people making friends one another
sending messages to one another and then
strangers inviting other strangers to
stay in their home when they were on
holiday when they were travelling etc
and in some ways it was a beautiful
thing and the community toward self
apart and the website failed because it
shifted from being perceived as a
charity that everyone contributed to
equally of the good as their hearts to
being perceived as a private for-profit
corporation
and I say the word perceived because
nothing else about the website really
changed like what is the difference when
you click on the box and send someone a
message the website is just mediating
people with goodwill and charity doing a
good favor of one another why does it
really matter when it's revealed to you
that the people who
programmed and maintained the HTML and
created this website why does it matter
when it's shockingly revealed that in
fact there's a for-profit corporation
behind the scenes and maybe they're
making a tiny amount of money by having
advertising in the corner of the screen
so Nizar worth well it matters
I mean perception matters and I remember
I read different sort of political
points of view about coach surfing at
that time and one person said very
simply was look after having reviewed
all the facts and you know why these
people were disappointed because they
actually donated money and why other
people disappoint because they worked as
volunteers and donated their time and
then find out someone else is profiting
from that volunteer work and they're not
getting paid all the different broken
hearts and disappointments ultimately
coach surfing is a website and normally
websites are just owned by one person
there's just one person whose name is on
a piece of paper they're the person who
signed up and got that website address
got that URL set it up ultimately
websites don't really exist as
institutions at all so what is it we're
really doing here there's a sense in
which YouTube also is just a website or
at least I can say in a more perfect
world it would be just a website but
it's not right now YouTube is this
unbelievable bottleneck on freedom of
speech not not because YouTube has its
own standards of censorship which it is
entitled to it's a website it's owned by
a particular company
it's run by a particular executive with
the particular court records the problem
is there's no alternative to YouTube and
we have two wonderful examples of this
that just popped off in the last week or
so leafyishere a commentator or on an
old comedy channel whatever want to say
Oh gives millions of views per video so
you know one of the most famous
influential names who's ever been on
YouTube even if there's no particular
substance videos leafyishere had a video
deleted for cold harassment close quote
I was here in Canada the legal
definition of harassment
is that you do something that would
cause a rational person to be afraid for
their safety so it's a threat that a
rational and reasonable person would be
afraid of okay and what did leafy do in
this video did he point a gun at
somebody or wave a knife around no he
said of another youtuber quote I don't
like anything about you I don't even
like your face close quote
so if that qualifies as harassment this
video I'm recording right now should
also be pandas harassment because of
quoted him but the fundamental problem
is nobody said when this you know
controversy stormed across the internet
briefly people were briefly animated
upset about it
nobody said don't worry you can still
see it on the competitor to YouTube
called we two or us tube nobody said oh
well don't worry it was deleted off
youtube
but you can still see it on Vimeo nobody
said instead of drinking coke you could
drink Pepsi right the problem is we
don't have two three four five different
versions of YouTube different companies
with different aesthetics and different
moral standards and different modes of
censorship right the problem is
precisely that YouTube is the only game
in town Michael Moore is a wealthy
famous successful filmmaker the new film
everyone is talking about he actually is
just the executive producer for he
doesn't do the voice-over he he doesn't
seem to have contributed very much to
the content at all kind of method but
Michael Moore's name is all over this
new film called planet of the humans
rightly or wrongly it is being referred
to as Michael Moore's planted the humans
even if that's just a cynical market
idea why would Michael Moore put a major
film on YouTube why just think about
that just think about the era we're
living in ok
CNN is on YouTube france24 is on YouTube
BBC the British Broadcasting Service is
on YouTube right all of the most
important broadcasters and increasingly
the most important filmmakers are
putting their work on YouTube it's not
surprising it's kind of dark
men trees and political films first and
foremost Bernie Sanders's on YouTube
right YouTube really matters and I spent
my time voicing my opinion on YouTube
instead of writing essays or articles
that could be published in the local
newspaper here or I live in a small city
maybe three hundred thousand people live
here it's really the downtown area is
more like a hundred thousand or less
this is a small city in Canada and the
newspaper they would accept submissions
I probably could write in publishers my
time is better spent making this YouTube
video now to reach you I'll not just
reach a bigger audience of a more
meaningful connection with that audience
bla bla bla bla okay in many ways
publishing is dead nonfiction publishing
is especially dead and YouTube genuinely
is in 2020 a more important Agora it's a
more important marketplace for ideas
it's a more important meeting place for
politics and this is implicitly
indicated by the fact that Michael Moore
published this film on YouTube at all
okay wasn't pirated on YouTube it was
published on YouTube and it had the
potential to reach an audience of
millions of people on YouTube so when
this film was somewhat mysteriously
censored deleted allegedly it just due
to a rights infringement case you know
people are talking about to what extent
that may or may not be the whole story
but for whatever reason YouTube decides
to delete this film tape Oakview I heard
all kinds of reactions to this yeah but
what I never heard was don't worry you
can't see it on YouTube but you can see
it on Vimeo you can see it on some
competitor to YouTube
alright I've never seen or heard anyone
make that statement what people say so
don't worry probably if you search
carefully you can find some pirate
channel on YouTube like someone who
doesn't have the right someone who is
illegally downloaded it and re-uploaded
you so you can still find it to be
searched around alright like that's the
alternative one YouTube censors you
people search within YouTube for an
alternative within YouTube that hasn't
been censored yet right
just like the the system of censorship
hasn't hasn't caught up with it think
about that think about that this is a
situation where there is coca-cola and
there's no Pepsi
wait there is a really strange market
dominance that's unhealthy for everyone
it's especially healthy for politics
right very briefly the standards of
censorship in YouTube I don't begrudge
YouTube the right to do that you know
what YouTube ultimately is just a
website the same sense couchsurfing was
just a website ultimately it may be one
man's dream or there may be one board of
directors who come up with the rules
that everyone has to play by and fair's
fair if you don't like it start your own
website if you don't like the rules on
Facebook use myspace if you don't like
the rules on Instagram you know join
vsco join tumblr joint in tinder Twitter
or whatever you both there are
alternatives and there have to be
alternatives okay right now what if you
want to be a filmmaker who creates
movies that have as much nudity and
violence as is normal on HBO you can't
do that on YouTube alright YouTube
standards the censorship is much much
stricter than a mainstream American
television channel like HBO in fact the
censorship is much much stricter than
CNN alright then
the BBC the normal broadcast television
for news
if you check now the fine print on why
your video is demonetised one of the
reasons can simply be it discusses
sensitive social issues pure him fat
sprouts are the modification on YouTube
and of course they're right they have
worst punishments than just a
monetization as mentioned leafy it
wasn't just demonetized his video was
completely deleted because he told
someone I don't like you I don't even
like your face alright so if that's not
permissible what is and fundamentally
why is it not possible for leafy or
Michael Moore or anyone else to choose
some other flavor even if the
alternative is just as much similar to
YouTube as coke taste similar to Pepsi
why isn't there somewhere else you can
go with some other standards for
censorship and by the way I would also
be interested in seeing a youtube
channel uh sorry a competitor to YouTube
an alternative YouTube that is much more
strictly censored and where they
guarantee that every
on the website is appropriate for her
eight-year-olds to watch where it's you
know it's children's friendly
broadcasting or you know there are some
adults who don't want to see anything
that has blood or violence where those
are the standards if there's no swearing
at all great I would like to make
contact and upload to a different
website that - I'd like that diversity
of my own life be great to see that
there versus in it and we don't have
that at all
we have this surreal bottleneck about
this particular film plan of the humans
there's a big difference between saying
a film is important and saying that it's
intelligent if my daughter one day asked
me should she see the Star Wars prequels
if she one day asked me should she see
Dances with Wolves there's a great
example Todd what a stupid movie right
there are a lot of movies have gone with
the wind you can say this is an
important movie but it's not intelligent
you're not gonna learn anything from it
it's it's even kind of dumb and I can
talk you through why it was until why
was Dances with Wolves such a big deal
of Lord of the Rings whatever this was
important it had some importance but the
importance and intelligence are two very
different things in this same way I can
tell you with all sincerity that this
new film plan of the humans it's
important but it's not intelligent it's
dumb all right it's a stupid poorly made
poorly argued movie when I watched it
with my girlfriend again and again I hit
the pause button I was ranting why is
there no math they make these incredibly
vague factual claims and it would take
them one second to put up the bar chart
and say hey this is how much pollution
is created by a coal power plant
producing so many megawatts of
electricity and here's the comparison to
oil and natural gas here's the
comparison to the solar wind they could
have so easily substantiated their
claims
what are stated as absolute facts could
have been made relative and comparative
and reasonable and instead of chooses to
be unreasonable there is a lot of stuff
in this film that's fundamentally dumb
but guess what it's still important it's
still important for millions of people
to see this film and stop and ask
themselves what is biomass all these
companies ruining biomass Turner's
what does the word biomass really mean I
already knew that back 1995 to 1997 when
I was in university like circa 1999
I remember going through this stuff and
the United Nations definition of
sustainability and being a really harsh
critic of greenwashing and the corporate
technical innovation paradigm of
environmental worse I was the harshest
critic of all that stuff more than 20
years ago
so none of this is news to me all right
and for me also that that might lead me
to be kind of contemptuous and
dismissive this movie but I'm not
I appreciate that there are millions of
people who need to hear this very simple
fundamental message biomass does not
mean what you think it means right
that innovations like solar and wind
power are not a substitute for dealing
with these underlying fundamental
problems there is an important message
here however imperfect and guess what
freedom of speech doesn't just exist for
people you agree with freedom of speech
doesn't just exist for people who can
express their points perfectly backed up
with data and charts and facts and
figures either exist to the people who
are wrong along with the people who are
right or exist for nobody at all right
either freedom of speech can lead us
right now to have this meaningful
discussion or it can't and what and what
and what was the response from the
ecological left-wing what was the
response from idiots
like George mambi oh the response was to
complain that this film wasn't woke
enough that it wasn't left-wing enough
that it wasn't ad capitalist enough and
oh oh the laziest trope of all in
left-wing politics they had to go ahead
and accuse the filmmaker of racism the
only concrete proposal in your film was
that there should be a mass die-off
because the problem was population
you've got to start dealing with the
issue of population
I actually am scared I lose sleep over
all of this our population growth is
what people reach for when they don't
want to face structural and systemic
problems
problems such as capitalism the greater
part of population growth is happening
amongst the world's poorest people who
consume very little and so what we see
is the phenomenon of comparatively
wealthy white people saying we're not
the problem
our consumption growth isn't the issue
it's those people breeding they are the
problem this claim is inherently racist
I think I don't need to prove to you
that this film is not racist that's an
unbelievable be unreasonable stupid
criticism too directed a film that does
deserve criticism that would benefit
from criticism where all of us can learn
more by giving an in-depth and
meaningful criticism and no no no the
left-wing wants to say not woke enough
catalyst enough that somehow implicitly
it's racist there isn't a single word in
the whole film that points the finger of
blame at africa there isn't a single
word that points the finger of blame at
South America or China but guess what
guys when it comes to ecology a mammals
a mammal you think China and Brazil and
Africa don't matter they do and there's
a really strange kind of racism if you
only want to blame white people the way
George Maffeo does because guess what
the computer I'm using to record this
right now the cell phone I have in my
pocket the microphone the bench I'm
sitting on almost everything you can see
on camera right now was made in China
there's a lot of pollution in China for
stuff we consume in the Western world
it's all connected
stop pretending what people will believe
the problem that's also a ridiculous
position to adopt someone could make a
new movie you're bad yes overpopulation
is a problem no it's not the whole
problem and just as there is not a
single word in this movie that's racist
there's also not a single word in this
movie that recognizes the overwhelming
significance of meat and dairy
consumption we're gonna not bother to
mention leather and fur they're also
terrible however most people don't buy a
new leather
every day whereas they do eat pork beef
etc fish chicken day after day after day
three people's a day so the scale of the
problem with consumption in terms of
eating meat and dairy is much much
larger
even though leather also pterygoid
should be abolished right
the fundamental problem with the
approach this film as to overpopulation
is not that it's racist it's that it
only counts the overpopulation of humans
what you need to think about what you
need to understand is that the earth is
overpopulated with mammals if you take a
small island let's just say it's Japan
it's not that small the whole main
island of Japan if you cut the number of
humans in half but you triple the number
of cows and triple the number of pigs
what have you got an ecological disaster
ok cows and pigs eat food every day they
poo every day but their poo doesn't go
into a sewage treatment system right
their pool goes trading theirs
so the ecological impacts are worse you
think in your mind's eye that you just
take a bunch of soy beans and feed them
to a cow and generate beef out of it do
the calculations do the math step by
step that cows going to live for more
than a day it's gonna breathe the air
and drink water and urinate and defecate
and consume soy beans day after day
after day after day living in you know
inhumane awful conditions until one day
it dies and as terrible as all that is
to look at it from a completely
Machiavellian perspective it's also just
an unbelievable waste of resources so
the carrying capacity of the earth can't
be measured in humans alone it has to be
measured in mammals the economic and
ecological efficiency of a society of
vegans is exponentially better than a
society of beefeaters pork eaters
chicken eaters so on and so forth so
everyone's fitting the elephant room is
population well yes and no ultimately
the elephant in the room is not human
population it's the total population of
mammals adding together the billions of
people with the billions and billions of
animals that we raise holding captivity
and exploit for our own
necessary unhealthy and immoral dietary
needs
it's a stupid film it's an important
film and it's a goddamn shame that in
2020 people as famous wealthy and
powerful as leafy leafy is here as
famous wealthy and powerful as Michael
Moore are being deep lat formed and
silenced by YouTube because YouTube has
this amazing bottleneck on freedom of
speech on what is the most powerful the
most important way to get a message like
this out to millions of people I hate
this film I thought it was garbage but I
wish millions of people could see it
I wish millions of people who get
inspired to engage in a critical
reaction to it do their own thinking do
their own google searching find the
numbers that the film doesn't provide
you with it could lead us in a really
productive set of reflections and
discussions including on the fact that
ultimately fundamentally overpopulation
cannot be measured in two-legged
creatures at all alone it has to be
measured with fluid creatures in the
calculus as well but because of YouTube
we won't have that opportunity and what
is the alternative looking forward in
2020 who will stand up and give us an
alternative to YouTube when online video
is more important than ever before